Hey everyone, welcome back to our message takeaway series where we've been journeying together as a church through the book of Mark. Today, we're gonna be talking
in Mark 6 verses 1 through 29, discovering more about who Jesus is.
yeah we're gonna be talking about reliance we're gonna be talking about dependence so we just wanna open up with a with a question for you guys is of when you wake up in the morning.
Or you leave the house to start your day like what are things that you must have with you like you cannot forget that you depend to start your day off right that you can do
You can get through the day because, you know,
I would guess it would be your phone.
Oh, definitely. Probably a credit card. Coffee for me, it's matcha. What about you? Like, I gotta have matcha before I leave the house. I love matcha.
I'm not sure, but I'm definitely an Americano girl. Americano. So that's like a go-to thing. Like if you don't have it, you feel a pop. I feel off for sure. And my car keys. Ooh.
I am always losing my car. I mean, you're just not going anywhere without me. I mean, stuck. So what happens, though, like if you're saying you lose your car keys.
10 keys or we don't get your coffee or for example, like you leave your phone at home and you forget it. Yeah.
What do you feel like is is the day a loss because you got
out of your morning routine especially with your phone like i've heard people say or even i've said and i feel like naked without my phone yes so really you feel like incomplete you feel in a sense.
So in a sense, like vulnerable to the day for some reason, because we depend on this thing, we rely on this thing so much just in our daily life.
life.
Even with copy do you feel like you don't have enough energy to get through your day or to
Conquer life's tasks at work or school or whatever.
you're in and i know these are just funny objects and all these are just day to day things but when it comes to dependence these are real things that we truly do rely on.
And in mark 6 right here
ah jesus is really challenging the disciples cause he's about to send them out to spread the good news to bring them and tell them about himself.
ah two ah other cities, other communities and he's sending about two by two.
so i'm gonna read ah our our verse we're gonna read ah mark six we're gonna start on on verse seven and end on thirteen and he called the twelve to himself.
Self.
And he began to send them out two by two,
And gave them power over unclean spirits.
He commanded him not to take,
nothing for the journey except the staff so no bag no bread no copper in their money belts
But to wear sandals, and not to put on two tunics,
And he said to them, in whatever place you enter, how stay there till you depart from that place.
And whoever will not receive you or hear you when you depart from there, shake off the dust under your feet as a testimony against them.
"Assuredly, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than that for that city." Wow.
So verse twelve, So they went out and preached that people should repent, and they cast out many demons, and anointed many who were sick,
and healed them. Amazing story of just the authority that was given to them by Jesus to do ministry to the surrounding people.
rounding communities and cities they were sent to. And I think the biggest thing is they're really challenged. Then Jesus challenged them. He's like, hey, like, hey.
Don't bring your Patagonia hoodie with you. Leave your lunchable, your sandwich or your public sub at home. You're not bringing that right? Right. You're only wearing sandals. You're not bringing your Nikes, but.
But you need to rely then on the hospitality.
Of strangers when you get into the community.
and why it was to encourage dependence and trust in god for the mission that was at hand. so we are on mission.
Yeah, we are. We truly are.
like god gives us purpose in our life as christians as we said like last week or a week ago it's like it's we don't have to like live and just go through the motions of life right.
Right. because he literally gives us purpose in our day to day. So we can identify a little bit with the disciples. Yes, we're on mission, and yes, we need to depend on
On him.
but as we go down a little bit further in our our ah text that we read today, it said.
like why would they shake off the dust of an unwelcoming town from their feet like i've never talk like that in my life i've never had someone say that to me but here's what that means ah in in.
In this context, it was as a testimony against that city or those people who rejected their message, who rejected them. It was a warning. Hey, judgments coming to those who.
Those who reject sin.
The gospel. and that was the truth of it.
So yes, as we read, the disciples were very effective
the experience rejection though from some so it wasn't all amazing it wasn't all easy it wasn't all celebrations.
or wins but here's the thing that I love it didn't paralyze their mission it didn't paralyze them from doing what God has called them it didn't discourage them it didn't set them back
It didn't just take all the wind out of their sails. No, why because their dependence was not on themselves It wasn't on what they brought it was on everything
Jesus. And it seems like such a simple thing. And this could be like, oh, this is for like the new Christians. No, this is for every Christian to be talking about. Because how many things are in
Are we making it a priority in life other than God?
so when it comes down to it, dependence really comes down to ah a thing of of pride in our life i think you can say at least a major thing is pride in our lives and in our culture.
culture today.
we pride ourselves off of people that are self success, self made stories. It's something that's absolutely celebrated in our culture.
Culture.
so i think the question and i'd love to hear like your opinions like what happens if your dependence is completely in yourself or in the things that you've done and you've.
and you feel worn out, you're lacking compassion, or you're lacking joy even when you are succeeding, like what's that mean? Like how do you get out of that?
Yeah, I think when I've thought to times in my life where I've become dependent on something else other than God I know that they're the mission
The mission that I'm on becomes exponentially more challenging. It becomes a lot harder to do what God has called me to do, what God has made me to do.
I'm
Shifting my focus away from God on even the problem, even when I put way too much dependence on solving a problem, or, um, maybe even putting my.
putting my dependence in the people around me, I recognize that there's a lack of energy. There's a lack of commitment to what I'm doing. And I start to see
I start to see the problem more than I start to see what God has called me to do in it.
so we can take purpose and not that purpose is always easy but what you're saying is sometimes it just feels like a chore yeah again you're just trying to get through it right you know what i mean when i believe the lord gives us a life that we can.
That we can really truly experience joy. it's true in the mission, even if it does feel like you're climbing uphill, you know what I mean? in some things.
We can experience joy. Yeah. Yeah, I think the fragility of self-reliance or dependence is that, man, when things don't go your way, like, we fall apart. Yeah, you crumble. Like, we literally crumble.
And maybe the day falls apart.
maybe the week or month falls apart and maybe you feel like the the year has felt falling apart just because.
Man, like, why can't I figure this out? Why can't I...
Do it right. and what I'm so encouraged by the disciples, what I'm so encouraged about what Jesus sent them out and gave them his authority, is that, man,
the rejection if they came up against resistance and what they were trying to share, where they were trying to go. It didn't stop their ministry. Right. It didn't stop them.
It didn't stop their purpose. It didn't defeat them. Right. That's so good. In the next chapter, it recognizes where the disciples were and says that they preached the gospel.
The gospel. And they worked miracles. That's so cool. All because they were dependent on God.
Yeah, and we see at the end here, it's like, man, they were efficient. Yeah, like the Lord. again, it wasn't their works. it wasn't their might. but man, the Lord, through his authority given to them, they were efficient. and it's like,
I said, man, they cast out demons. They did healings. Yeah. So they really did what the Lord called them to do because they depended on him. So a simple question, just to bring it down to the prophet.
The practical for you and me, how we can change our tomorrow morning by just what the word of God is challenging us on today is that we can ask ourselves, what things have we replaced?
placed
ah our dependence on then from god you know like hey guy what have i replaced you with something else that literally can't sustain literally i can't rely on.
One that is kind of like shaky ground, if you will. Like you mentioned, it was it was friends. Yeah. It was like our relationships like, and those are good things. But like when good things are used.
are used in not the appropriate ways, man, it really can be damaging in some way. Totally. Yeah, I felt really convicted the other day as I was driving home. I was thinking,
was thinking about a problem that I was processing through, and I was pretty stressed out about it. And I remembered in the moment, just the Holy Spirit convicting me.
Do you mean, okay, right now I can either go to God or...
Or I can go to my friends and I recognize that so many of the patterns of my last few weeks had been, let me just call a friend and process with them instead of going to go
into God first. Like how do I make prayer my first response instead of my last resort has been a real big challenge for me because when I put my dependence in people,
30 people, I start listening to what they're saying even more than what the Word of God would say, more than what the Holy Spirit has shown me. And it makes the challenge that I'm processing through even harder.
even harder because then I'm processing all these different thoughts. Yes, there's wisdom in the counsel of many. Yes, I love my friends and they give me great advice. But how can I
I, we weren't dependent on God instead of people. It's been a huge challenge for me. I felt very convicted and I had to repent truly and be like, God, I'm so sorry that I would even be.
Even think about going to my friends before going to you. Yeah.
yeah when i when i ah read this verse i thought about me more i for trying to get out of debt we want to buy a house you know and then when you feel like you can't cut down on as much as you want even though you are.
You are cutting down on debt.
you feel like oh we're not doing it. life is just out of control you know cause everything is about the bank account that's what brings happiness that what brings joy that what makes you feel like you're making a difference you know.
You know, some of it is like self-worth or how you're perceived by people. You know what I mean? Your status. So there's all these things and you just have to ask yourself, like, what is that for you?
You, everyone is so different, but yeah, there's probably shared ways by other people, but ask yourself, what things have I replaced my reliance and dependence on other than God?
And God. So we're going to pray together. I think this is such a practical, but I think it really like speaks to the soul and the heart of like where we are directly with our dependence on.
It's our reliance and our trust in him. So we're going to pray for you. We love you guys. Let's pray for us in a
Lord, just thank you for your word. Thank you for how faithful you are. Thank you how you do put us on mission. I'm just encouraged that you're faithful to the disciples.
uh to do work through them through your authority through them lord so jesus as we as we uh acknowledge that we're on mission as we acknowledge that we want to depend and trust and rely on you
I am you God. I just pray that you reveal those things. I pray that we do repent and we come to you and that we would experience the grace and compassion to know, hey, there's going to be new mercy in the morning. We can continue it.
It doesn't have to set that back. We don't have to feel guilty because of what you have done in our lives, God. But let those things get out of the way so we can truly experience a fulfilled life.
A life, a life of joy.
in everyday life, even the ups and downs. We love you and your name.
Amen.